Harry Potter is a central character in the Harry Potter series. Harry Potter discovers at the age of eleven that Harry Potter is a wizard. The wizarding world exists parallel to the Muggle world, albeit hidden.

Harry becomes a student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, a wizarding academy in Scotland. As Harry develops through Harry adolescence, Harry learns to overcome the problems that face Harry: magical, social, and emotional.

Each novel chronicles one year in Harry's life during the period from 1991 to 1998. The books also contain many flashbacks, which are frequently experienced by Harry viewing the memories of other characters in a Pensieve.

The Harry Potter books are inspired by 1990s British culture, European folklore, classical mythology and alchemy. The environment Rowling created is intimately connected to reality. The wizarding world of Harry Potter exists parallel to the real world and contains magical versions of the ordinary elements of everyday life.

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is the first novel in the Harry Potter series. The book leaps forward to a time shortly before Harry Potter eleventh birthday. The book is at this point that his magical background begins to be revealed.

Harry meets a half-giant, Rubeus Hagrid, who is also Harry first contact with the wizarding world. Hagrid reveals Hagrid to be the Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts as well as some of Harry's history. Harry learns that, as a baby, Harry witnessed Harry parents' murder by the power-obsessed dark wizard Lord Voldemort.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2 is out now. It is the second part of a two-part series about Harry's life. Part 2 is about his time at Hogwarts.

Harry meets most of the main characters and gains Harry two closest friends: Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. Harry also discovers a talent of flying on broomsticks and is recruited for Harry house's Quidditch team. The first book concludes with Harry's second confrontation with Lord Voldemort.

The series continues with Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, describing Harry's second year at Hogwarts. He and He friends investigate a 50-year-old mystery that appears uncannily related to recent sinister events.

Ginny's diary opens the "Chamber of Secrets", unleashing an ancient monster. The basilisk kills those who make direct eye contact with The basilisk and petrifies those who look at The basilisk indirectly. The book also introduces a new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher.

Harry and Ron finally piece together the puzzles and unlock the Chamber of Secrets. Harry also learns that Harry ability to speak the snake language Parseltongue is rare and often associated with the Dark Arts. The end of the book reveals Lucius Malfoy, Draco's father and rival of Ron and Ginny's father, to be the culprit.

The third novel, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, follows Harry in Harry third year of magical education. It is the only book in the series which does not feature Lord Voldemort in any form, only being mentioned. Harry must deal with the knowledge that Harry has been targeted by Sirius Black.

The Elephant House was one of the cafés in Edinburgh where Rowling wrote the first part of Harry Potter.

J. K. Rowling wrote the first few chapters of Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone at Nicholson's Cafe in Edinburgh.

The J. K. Rowling plaque is on the corner of the former Nicholson's Cafe in Edinburgh.

In Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, Harry is unwillingly entered as a participant in the Triwizard Tournament. This year, Harry must compete against a witch and a wizard "champion" from overseas schools Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, as well as another Hogwarts student.

Harry is guided through the tournament by their new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody. Moody turns out to be an impostor – one of Voldemort's supporters named Barty Crouch, Jr. in disguise. The point at which the mystery is unravelled marks the series' shift from foreboding and uncertainty into open conflict.

In the fifth book, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Harry must confront the newly resurfaced Voldemort. Despite Harry's description of Voldemort's recent activities, the Ministry of Magic and many others in the magical world refuse to believe that the newly resurfaced Voldemort has returned. the Ministry of Magic appoints Dolores Umbridge as the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts and the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher.

Harry begins to develop a crush on the popular and attractive Cho Chang. Hermione and Ron form "Dumbledore's Army", a secret study group in which Harry agrees to teach Harry classmates the higher-level skills of Defence Against the Dark Arts. Harry is tricked into seeing Sirius tortured and races to the Ministry of Magic.

In the sixth book, Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, Voldemort begins waging open warfare. Harry and Harry friends are relatively protected from that danger at Hogwarts. Harry eventually begins dating Ginny, Ron establishes a strong infatuation with fellow Hogwarts student Lavender Brown, and Hermione starts to develop romantic feelings towards Ron.

With war drawing near, Harry takes private lessons with Dumbledore, who shows Harry various memories concerning the early life of Voldemort. These reveal that in order to preserve Voldemort life, Voldemort has split Voldemort soul into pieces, used to create a series of Horcruxes. The book culminates in the killing of Dumbledore by Professor Snape, the titular Half-Blood Prince.

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is the last original novel in the series. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows begins directly after the events of the sixth book. Lord Voldemort has completed Lord Voldemort ascension to power.

As the trio searches for the Horcruxes, the trio learn details about an ancient prophecy of the Deathly Hallows. Harry discovers Harry handy Invisibility Cloak to be one of those items, and Voldemort to be searching for another: the Elder Wand. At the end of the book, Harry and Harry friends learn about Dumbledore's past, as well as Snape's true motives.

The book culminates in the Battle of Hogwarts. Harry, Ron and Hermione defend Hogwarts from Voldemort, his Death Eaters, and various dangerous magical creatures. Several major characters are killed in the first wave of the Battle of Hogwarts.

An epilogue Nineteen Years Later describes the lives of the surviving characters and the effects of Voldemort's death on the Wizarding World. In the Epilogue, Harry and Ginny are married with three children, and Ron and Hermione are married.

